---
title: Young Entrepreneurs Business Week 2012
author: Colby Aley
layout: post
---

After hearing about it through a friend from school, I decided to sign up for Oregon’s [Young Entrepreneurs Business Week][1] at Oregon State University. YEBW is a week-long event / camp for high school students to learn about business and entrepreneurship.

 [1]: http://yebw.org

Students come from around the country, from as close as five minutes away to as far as the state of New York. Students are separated into companies / groups that contain about 10 students and one mentor, who are men and women that come from companies around Oregon. In these companies students are assigned roles such as CEO, CMO, etc. Throughout the week, students in their companies learn how to run a business using the “BIZSim” program, and learn how to form a business with various activities. YEBW also strives to teach participants’ networking skills with various social gatherings such as movies and games.

Throughout my experience at YEBW I kept a nightly log of what I learned during the day and any observations that I made.

**Day 1 − 7/15/12**

Got settled in the dorms and whatnot. The campus is extremely quiet and at any given moment I could probably find more bikes than cars. Awesome!

There are about 150 kids, but I really wonder why some of them are here. I love it when people can prove that experience means nothing, so in a way it’s cool.

A little birdie tells me that some students are here because of a program that pays them to attend. I’m not a fan as it really dilutes the group of passionate students with kids who aren’t the least bit interested. The best is when the students themselves decide to come.

The group of company advisors / mentors looks awesome and they all come from different industries. Mine works in finance at Boeing. Rad.

We’ve started working on BIZSim, the business simulation program. I’ve noticed that the companies you run with BIZSim are total brick and mortar companies that have to worry about inventory and supply. That’s something I didn’t know about before, so it’s neat to learn about something completely new.

Apparently nobody on this campus has discovered what air conditioners are, because I’ve yet to visit a building that has one.

**Day 2 − 7/16/12**

We toured the OSU College of Business as well as listened to a talk about the College of Engineering by an engineering professor. It’s obvious why OSU is interested in backing YEBW as you are taught about the university quite a bit in hopes that you will consider applying when the time comes. As my mother is a University of Oregon alum (OSU rival), I’m pretty biased.

The engineering professor was awesome. To start, he rode in on a Segway to explain how it’s an engineering marvel. I still think he was just running a bit too late to walk. He claimed to have had the idea for the [JavaJacket][2], which according to him was stolen by the Starbucks employees who he shared it with. I actually believe him.

 [2]: http://www.javajacket.com/

Tonight we listened to an hour-long motivational speech by a person named [Jake French][3] who faced a spinal cord injury in 2008 and was confined to a wheelchair, not being able to move neither his arms nor his legs. He shared with us some inspiring stories, such as how his accident taught him a lot about himself, even though it felt as if he was “sent back to square one” in life. The speech was great though I question how fitting it really was.

 [3]: https://www.facebook.com/pages/Life-Happens-Live-It/

In other news, I was appointed to Chief Operating Officer in my BIZSim company. I found that quite funny.

**Day 3 − 7/17/12**

Today we listened to a plethora of inspirational speakers. Their talks were, for the most part, very inspiring and uplifting. We listened to [Zeke Camusio][4], who discussed the many failures and successes throughout his life as an entrepreneur.

 [4]: https://twitter.com/ZekeCamusio

We also heard from [Lou Radja][5], who talked about helping others once you become successful. His speech was extremely interesting and memorable. You could tell that he practiced and that he custom tailored the speech to fit out event.

 [5]: http://louradja.com/

The third person who spoke to us was [Mark][6] from [Clive Coffee][7], who spoke to us about his company and how he manages it, as well as the new product he is working on now. The guy seems to know a lot about marketing, which is awesome because as we all know, marketers rule the world.

 [6]: https://twitter.com/clivecoffee
 [7]: http://clivecoffee.com

Lastly, we listened to a speech about discrimination. As you could imagine, it wasn’t really anything new but rather an extremely enthusiastic speaker going into fine detail about different types of discrimination. To be honest I am not completely sure how it fit into the YEBW theme of business. *Yes, I do understand that it is important to not discriminate as an employer.*

**Day 4 − 7/18/12**

We all listened to a talk titled “Death by PowerPoint” that points out the characteristics of both good and bad presentations. This will help us tomorrow when we start working on two presentations that we will have to give on Friday.

**Day 5 − 7/19/12**

Today my company / group stayed up until 11:30 PM creating two presentations that we will give tomorrow to a panel of judges. I had the idea of opening with a [Steve Ballmer inspired][8] “I LOVE THIS COMPANY,” but the idea got shot down.

 [8]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wvsboPUjrGc

Our practice time was interrupted by a presentation about personal finance. The presentation was informational and actually pretty interesting, even though it took up an hour of our precious time.

After catching up on news and practicing my speech, I didn’t end up getting any sleep until nearly 2 AM.

**Day 6 − 7/20/12**

Woke up at 5:45 AM stressed out about these presentations. For you mathematicians, yes, that equates to 3.75 hours of sleep.

Later in the day my group gave our two presentations to the judges. We received some great feedback, and the presentations went very well considering how much we practiced them (not much).

We learned the next day that we actually won one of our presentations, meaning that we did better than any other group.

As our last dinner here, we ate a formal meal where we were taught some important etiquette rules.

There was also a dance. Takeaway: Nobody here knows how to dance, including me.

**Conclusion**

YEBW was an unforgettable experience. Going back home will be extremely bittersweet. I hope to be able to return next year since they have different curriculum for second and third year students. I got a chance to meet some awesome people in the community, as well as learn more about business and marketing.

I would definitely suggest it to anyone interested in business or entrepreneurship. It’s truly a great opportunity.