---
layout: post
title: You're not as busy as you think.
published: true
---

"Hey kid, shut the fuck up. You don't know me and you don't know what the hell you're talking about."

If that's what is going through your head right now, I invite you to spend three minutes of your life reading this. I guarantee that reading this will not get in the way of your startup raising it's next funding round. It will not stop you from accomplishing your goals. And most importantly, I guarantee you that these three minutes are not what will make or break your success in life.

___

People love the idea of being busy. Why? Because it makes them feel important. It makes them feel like someone is relying on them. It makes them feel like they're part of something larger than themselves.

Though at the time they may not enjoy it, people naturally like inboxes full of other people depending on them. They like the thought of being busy, shooting emails off like mad, staying up all night coding. Just trying to accomplish their goals.

This occurs in different levels in almost every industry. People who think they are too busy to respond to your call. People who are too important to take a walk and talk with you.

This also happens because people love calculating the [ROI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Return_on_investment) of everything. People are naturally selfish creatures and love to ask, "what's in it for me?" when presented with a situation.

Humans have a problem accepting the fact that sometimes you can't calculate ROI on everything. Some things will not make you any smarter, they will not make you any more successful in your business or personal life, they will not turn you into a millionaire, but that's okay.

Relax a little. Watch that TV show you've always wanted to. Take a walk for no reason at all. Go on that roller coaster once more. Call up your 89 year old grandma on the phone. There are some things that you just have to do that may not make sense in the short term, but in the long term will make all the difference.

Remember: [nobody](http://jobs.aol.com/articles/2012/02/03/almost-everyone-on-their-death-bed-regrets-working-too-much/) ever said on their deathbed, 'I wish I had spent more time working'.
