---
layout: post
title: "Taking Risks"
published: true
---

Like many people interested with and involved in startups, I've long been attracted to the idea of thinking big and taking risks. Because after all, the greatest risks tend to yield the greatest returns.

I've realized though, that there's more to taking risks than simply pursuing the riskiest option when presented with a choice. I've realized that **you must put yourself in a position to be successful before taking a risk.**

I often tell the story of the first startup I worked on, one that failed before we even formed the company. It failed because I wasn't in any position to start a company, particularly one based on a webapp. For, I had no idea how to *actually build* the app.

So, sure it was a big idea, but I was in no position to be successful. Had I learned how to code before I pursued it, the chances of it succeeding would have been exponentially greater.

Startups tend to be notoriously risky. Part of that risk is inevitable, originating simply from the their nature. Though, there are ways you can make them less risky, by identifying the things you can change. Your weaknesses. The things that may hold you back later down the road.

There are quite a few things you can learn on the job, but the more you rely on that, the more narrow your chances of being successful. It will slow you down, which is never helpful.

Take risks, but put yourself in a position to be successful. Identify your weaknesses, the things you can change, and address them.